[workers] update debug guide and add local dev/testing guide (#10222)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/observability/local-development-and-testing.md

```sh
$ npx wrangler dev --remote
```

### Customize `wrangler dev`

You can customize how `wrangler dev` works to fit your needs. Refer to [the `wrangler dev` documentation](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) for available configuration options.

{{<Aside type="warning">}}

There is a bug associated with how outgoing requests are handled when using `wrangler dev --remote`. For more information, read the [Known issues section](/workers/platform/known-issues/#wrangler-dev).

{{</Aside>}}

## Use DevTools

Wrangler supports using the [Chrome DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/) to view logs/sources, set breakpoints, and profile CPU/memory usage. With `wrangler dev` running, press the <kbd>d</kbd> key in your terminal to open a DevTools session connected to your Worker from any Chromium-based browser.

## Debug via breakpoints

As of Wrangler 3.9.0, you can debug via breakpoints in your Worker. Breakpoints provide the ability to see exactly what is happening at a given point in the execution of your Worker. This functionality exists in both DevTools and VSCode.

> For more information on breakpoint debugging via Chrome's DevTools read [this article](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/javascript/breakpoints/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on breakpoint debugging via Chrome's DevTools, refer to [Chrome's article on breakpoints](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/javascript/breakpoints/).
```

### Setup VSCode to use breakpoints

> To setup VSCode for breakpoint debigging Workers, you'll need to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To setup VSCode for breakpoint debugging Workers:
```

1. Create a `.vscode` folder in your project's root folder if one does not exist.

> 2. Within that folder create a `launch.json` file with the following contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Within that folder, create a `launch.json` file with the following content:
```

```json
{
  "configurations": [
      {
          "name": "Wrangler",
          "type": "node",
          "request": "attach",
          "port": 9229,
          "cwd": "/",
          "resolveSourceMapLocations": null,
          "attachExistingChildren": false,
          "autoAttachChildProcesses": false,
          "sourceMaps": true // works with or without this line
      }
  ]
}
```

3. Open your project in VSCode, open a new terminal window from VSCode, and run `npx wrangler dev` to start the local dev server.

> 4. At the top of the " Run & Debug" panel you should see an option to select a configuration. Choose "Wrangler", and click the play icon. You should see "Wrangler: Remote Process [0]" show up in the Call Stack panel on the left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. At the top of the **Run & Debug** panel, you should see an option to select a configuration. Choose **Wrangler**, and select the play icon. You should see **Wrangler: Remote Process [0]** show up in the Call Stack panel on the left.
```

5. Go back to a `.js` or `.ts` file in your project and add at least one breakpoint.

> 5. Open your browser and navigate to the Worker's local URL (default http://127.0.0.1:8787). The breakpoint should be hit, and your should see details about your code at the specified line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Open your browser and go to the Worker's local URL (default `http://127.0.0.1:8787`). The breakpoint should be hit, and you should see details about your code at the specified line.
```

## Test Workers

### Integration testing

Wrangler offers an experimental API, `unstable_dev`, that will allow you to start a server for integration testing.

> For more information and examples, read the [`unstable_dev` guide](/workers/wrangler/api/#unstable_dev).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information and examples, refer to the [`unstable_dev` guide](/workers/wrangler/api/#unstable_dev).
```

### Advanced local testing via Miniflare

[Miniflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/miniflare/blob/v3.20231016.0/packages/miniflare/README.md) is a simulator for developing and testing Workers. It supports simulating and mocking resources like: KV, Durable Objects, R2, D1, and Queues.

> Miniflare is fully local, and is built on top of the Workers runtime, [`workerd`](https://github.com/cloudflare/workerd) to ensure that local behavior accurately reflects production. All of this makes it a great tool for writing tests or advanced use-cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Miniflare is fully local, and is built on top of the Workers runtime, [`workerd`](https://github.com/cloudflare/workerd) to ensure that local behavior accurately reflects production. All of this makes it a great tool for writing tests or advanced use cases.
```

## Starting a local development server

{{<Aside type="note">}}

This guide assumes you are using [Wrangler v3.0](https://blog.cloudflare.com/wrangler3/) or later.

Users new to Wrangler CLI and Cloudflare Workers should visit the [Wrangler Install/Update guide](/wrangler/install-and-update) to install `wrangler`.

{{</Aside>}}

Wrangler provides a [`dev`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) command that starts a local server for developing your Worker. Run the following in the folder containing your Worker application:

```sh
$ npx wrangler dev
```

`wrangler dev` will run the preview of the Worker directly on your local machine. This uses a combination of `workerd` and [Miniflare](https://github.com/cloudflare/miniflare), a simulator that allows you to also test your Worker against additional products like: KV, Durable Objects, WebSockets, and more.

### Developing locally using remote resources and bindings

{{<Aside type="note">}}

Developing against remote resources will count towards billable usage.

{{</Aside>}}

> `wrangler dev` runs locally by default. This means that all resources and bindings are simulated locally as well. However, there may be times you need to develop against remote resources and bindings. To do this, you'll want to add the `--remote` flag to `wrangler dev` like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`wrangler dev` runs locally by default. This means that all resources and bindings are simulated locally as well. However, there may be times you need to develop against remote resources and bindings. To run `wrangler dev` remotely, add the `--remote flag`:
```

```sh

> $ wrangler dev --remote

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ npx wrangler dev --remote
```
